                             HUBTEL INTERNSHIP NOTES
1.In-app Notifications
Notifications inside an app e.g like in LinkedIn.This helps users not forget important
information.
*Push notifications dives users back into an app.Example are notifications on top of your screen
that when you tap you get into an app.
--There are notifiction servers(Apple or Google) between sender and receiver.
--Notifications are sent by tokens.
--When you send a message from your phone,the notification server gives your device a token.
The token represents the application of that device.Thus each device has different tokens for that application
hence making it easy to transfer notifications between apps on devices.
--Companies use push notifications to alarm staff of a meeting.(Broadcast info to everyone).
SNS...........Simple Notifications Service.
--Push notications are not so necessary but helpful.
--Push notifications are used for:
(a)Chat or messaging apps
(b)Alarms for services

2.(A)Web Socket is a protocol that enables two way communication between client and server.
API is a one way communication protocol.It allows for persistent communication.
Data is transferred as JSON format.It uses handshake.
Typical use case of web sockets is in betting apps where updates are constantly being
received from a server.Online gaming and chat applications use Web Sockets.Connection exists continuously 
unless terminated.Communication is via events and messages.
Another is Stock Trading Websites where updates are constantly sent from the 
backend to the frontend.For Games,web sockets ensure UI is constantly refreshed
as a match goes on.

OTHERS:
(a)Http is one way(either client sends and server waits or vice versa) and TCP is two way
that is both van send.Http is stateless.Hence,web sockets works on TCP.
Web Sockets are faster because they are two-way.
**Polling is the process by which a client makes a request for data from server.
Polling is done at intervals.Polling causes alot of connection to be established
of which many contain empty responses.Alternative is HTTP Long Polling which causes 
data to pushed to client constantly from server whenever data is available.
Web Sockets is full duplex.Hence,server is constantly checking database for latest data.

--socket.io is a javascript library for easy implementation of web sockets.
--Web Sockets are not supported in older browsers.
--Whatsapp uses web sockets.
**High Level implies a general overview.
**Sending message to a friend is POST.GET is used to receive the message.

Http(REST) is easier to setup.
MAJOR COMMUNICATION PROTOCOLS
1.Short Polling is the process by which client is constantly requesting for data
from server where it receives an empty request or data(JSON).Within few seconds,
a call for data is made again.There's continous use of resources here.
2.Long Polling is similar to short polling however in event that there is no data
after a request,the server keeps the connection for which if data arrives,it is
forwarded to the client.
3.Web Sockets ensures a bidirectional constant connection.Eg is data to multiple
clients on a system is good implementation of web sockets.
SSE....Server Sent Events(Unidirectional flow)
Data is constantly sent from the server.This is stateful.Eg is Live Stream where
a video is being sent directly to our devices.
UPI.....Unified Payment Interface.
TCP is in the transport layer.
Stateless implies that after data transer,connection is automatically lost.
AJAX...Asynchronous Javascript And Xml
Hence,we say an AJAX request.
4.Polling 
Polling is a technique used to check for new data from source.
Short Polling makes a client request for data at regular intervals.Sever sends a 
response immediately after which connection is cut off.
Short Polling is used for apps that have low data volumes say email clients.
Long Polling is used for apps that have high data volumes say trading apps.
Short Polling is stateless whilst long polling is stateful.
(a)Short and Long Polling is used in message queues.
(b)Server Sent Events is also termed streaming.
(c)In long polling,client is first authenticated and constantly asking 
server for a response.That connection(handshake) exists for a while
until both terminate it.Eg is in stock price constant updates.
(d)SQS.......Simple Queue Service
(e)A disadvantage of long polling is that much resources are used.
(f)In long polling,a response is only sent when data is present otherwise,no response is sent.
Ajax request are short polling.
(g)Long polling is one-way.
5.Gradle
An open-source build automation tool for softwares.
Android Studio uses Gradle(stamped by Google).Gradle runs when we press "Run" in Android Studio.
Gradle does:
(a)Runs Tests
(b)Combines code from multiple sources
(c)Generates documentation
(d)Manage Dependencies and publish applications
Basically build implies that,we compile,run tests,package code (into jar and war) and deploy and run the code.
Hence,gradle being a build tool does the above.
Maven and Ant existed before Gradle.Maven deals with convention that is a specific format to which 
the folder structure must follow.Maven deals with pom.xml.Gradle is an improvement of these.
Gradle is commonly used in Groovy,Kotlin and Java or basically JVM languages.
Gradle is to compile,package and test.Gradle expects a project to have a specific layout that is folder structure.
Using gradle,there's a 'build.gradle' file written in Groovy or Kotlin with which
Gradle uses.To setup gradle,
(A)gradle init
(B)gradlew build............This is to build an app with gradle.
Maven is written in Java and used to build projects in C#,Scala and Ruby.
*pom is Project Object Model
Maven is good for small projects whereas Gradle is good for large projects.You can
easily switch from maven to gradle anytime.
(B)Commonly,maven and gradle are used in Java and C#.Maven is usually thought to be 
specific to Java,JVM and related IDEs however Gradle is domain-specific.
Maven is mostly for server-side languages whilst Gradle is for both server and client-side languages.
(C)Maven uses xml whilst Gradle does not.
This idea is very much similar to "dotnet build."
Gradle in Java provides alot of plugins to setup an app.
Whereas gradle adds to a project,maven compiles the code without any additions.
Build Script usually 'build.gradle' holds all dependencies to be added to the project.
6.SonarQube
(a)Developed by Sonar and written in Java.
(b)SonarQube detects and fixes issues in code with speed and precision.This helps to 
develop clean code.SonarQube is integrated into CI/CD pipelines.
(c)SonarQube works based on clean as you go.
(d)SonaqQube improves code and software quality.It deals with defect management and
quality attributes.
(e)SonarQube is for static and dynamic code reviews.SonarQube ensures proper coding  standards are used.
*Static review....Review done without running code.
*Dynamic review...Review done when code is in execution.
(f)SonarQube is for the probing of large codebases.It is used for different programming 
languages.
(g)SonarQube deals with:
-Duplicate code
-Coding Standards
-Unit Tests
-Code Complexity
-Code Coverage...........portion of code as a percentage that is run and tested.
-Code Vulnerability......portion of code that is open to attack say username and password
is available in code.
-Code Smells............Poorly written code and creates confusion that does not
follow programming standards.
(g)SonarQube works with build tools of Maven and Gradle.The build tool is
setup when configuring SonarQube.
(h)SonarQube checks entire source code or codebase for bugs.
*Community version is free and very limited.
*SonarQube has a number of rules it measures against written code.
COMPONENTS OF SONARQUBE
(A)SonarQube Server
1.Rules
2.Database(link to PostgreSql or any)
3.Web Interface
(B)SonarScanner.......Supports 27 languages
--Jenkins is a deployment tool.


 
